# Michael Schindler

Professor Michael Shindler is a new assistant professor of teaching at ICS. Before UCI he was at USC.

Doctor Shindler's talk provided an introduction to the concept of preemptive exams in CS classes and an analysis of his results using it to teach at USC.

A preemptive exam lets students in a core CS class like Algorithms or Discrete Math to take quizzes on core topics before the finals week, allowing them to skip that portion of the final if they do sufficiently well. In this model, every core topic assigned portion of total grade. Also, every core topic is tested at least once pre-final instead of leaving some topics till the final. This model must also make every core topic available at the final exam. If all these conditions are met, then these topics replace majority of exam points in class.

Some benefits of this approach are that it gets students to care about post-midterm feedback more. Later in the term, it can decrease congestion of students in office hours before finals. It can also decrease the number of final exams that need to be graded. Finally, it decrease the stress of individual exams on students.

Inspired by Patrick Henry Winston's MIT 6.034 (Artificial Intelligence), allowed quizzes to replace corresponding sections of the finals. For Math classes, getting an 'A' on every quiz means students can skip the final. The class also featured a comprehensive final replacing part of a midterm if the score is higher.

This is also similar to the concept of "Mastery Systems," which prevent you from taking exams on subsequent topics until you get an acceptable score on the previous.

At USC in Fall 18, instead of having a midterm worth 30% and a final worth 40%, he allowed a preemptive final with the following breakdown:

* Dynamic programming --- 13%
* Greedy --- 13%
* Divide and Conquer --- 10%
* Network Flow --- 12%
* NP-complete proof --- 12%

This also allows students to get feedback sooner on topic that are traditionally taught only at the final.

For a similar course in Discrete Mathematics, this approach helped very much for writing proofs. 

In general, student performance improved, and instructor resources were better utilized. In this case, office hours were allowed to be used for students who were struggling with the course versus students who were trying to get the last few points. It also allowed students to "lock in" a passing grade early on, so they could focus more on retention and refining their understanding versus instead of anxiety about passing.

$$
x = \int_0^\infty x^2
$$

Some caveats is that students could elect to fail certain modules, knowing they will get a satisfactory grade for their purposes. E.g., a student can choose to skip dynamic programming and accept a lower grade if they mostly care about passing. They also saw a lot more regrade requests. Shindler also cautioned that the exam should test appropriate topics. For example, choosing too easy of topics can make it too easy for students to lock in a good grade.

# Zhihao Yao

Zhihao Yao is a graduate student working in the TrussLab directed by Prof. Aradalan Amiri Sani.
The lab focuses on increasing security in common computer systems. Yao's talk focused 
Sugar, a platform to allow GPU sandboxing and virtualization in web browsers.

Since 2011, web browsers can use WebGL to get the same kind of access to the GPU that apps installed on the computer used to need OpenGL for. But unlike OpenGL, for which apps were made by trusted developers that would need to be obtained and installed on someone's computer, WebGL code can run on any website and so a much wider group of developers can run code on people's computers.
Sugar is a project to sandbox the web browser's access to the GPU by giving each web application access to a virtual GPU. 

Milkomedia --- solves the blind trust model in the mobile graphics stack in a similar way to how Sugar solves the trust model for web browsers.
GPUs are commonly used in mobile apps, for graphics and games.
In that case, an application runs in the user space,
while a driver runs in the kernel space and the accelerator runs in the hardware.
The GPU driver has many bugs---a Google study said that the GPU contributed to 27%
of all kernel vulnerabilities.
These vulnerabilities were almost all medium to high severity.

Yao continued to talk about Octopos, a new model of secure interprocess communication where each service is responsible for its own security.

# Saeed Mirzamohammadi

Saeed Mirzamohammadi is a PhD studnet directed by Prof. Ardalan Amiri Sani. In this talk he presented three security technologies aimed to prevent the exploitation of kernel bugs in the Linux kernel. These are vulnerabilities where a malware app in the userspace can gain access to the kernel.

Security Monitor is isolated from the operating system. As a result, the Security Monitor will not be gained control of when an attacker gains control of the operating system, and so can run its own checks for a compromised kernel.

The approach of the different technologies centers around hardware virtualization and using the ARM Trusted Computing Base. The virtualization hardware contains Control access to memory with hypervisor. Os virtual address is translated to an intermediate physical address via the stage-1 tables, and then to a physical system address via the stage-2 tables. The hypervisor communicates with Security Monitor to get a sense of trusted access.

ARM TrustZone divides the layers up into TrustZone normal world and the TrustZone secure world, so in the secure world they use cryptocell, trusted clock and other tools. 

The significance of preventing Linux kernel exploits has grown in recent years, becoming a larger and larger share of Android exploits.

Viola uses Security Monitor to check the trustworthiness of sensor notifications. The key idea is to monitor all the time, and have an LED flash for the user to see if malicious activity is going on in the system.

Ditio records sensor notifications and audits them to look for suspicious activity.

Tabellion uses secure primitives to form electronic contracts. Current systems don't have strong evidence a contract is valid, e.g., Signature attribution (could someone else who had access to the device clicked the button), mutual assent, and reading opportunity (that a user has seen and approved the contract). Some ways to get this are secure photo, secure timestamp, secure screenshot, and a secure notarization to collect evidence of the contract.  In Tabellion, the offerer is the person offering the contract, and the offeree is the person signing the contract. A central server coordinates this process and supervises the signing of the contract.



